1. Across Australia, at least 17.9 million acres have burned during this wildfire season.  Billions of plants and animals have been affected by the bushfires.  It is unclear how many have been killed and how many will be affected for generations.  Whole ecosystems may be permanently changed.2. According to australia.com, Kangaroo Island is one of the best places in Australia to see wildlife.  The island is 8 miles off the coast of South Australia.  3. A survey of plants and animals was completed in 1989 on Kangaroo Island.  The island supports 1,179 distinct plant taxa.  It is an island of many diverse and unique plants.  There are 6 amphibian, 20 reptile, 25 non-marine mammal, and 267 bird species.  A third of Kangaroo Island has been burned by wildfire.4. The coastal white mallee (Eucalyptus diversifolia) was one of the most dominant plant species during the 1989 species surveys.  Mallee is a term for eucalyptus trees that are multi-stemmed.  The coastal white mallee grows in dense patches and provides shelter for other native plants.  High intensity and frequent bushfires create conditions favorable to weed and rabbit invasion in mallee forest stands.5. There are approximately 300 species of termites in Australia (most don't eat houses).  The snouted termite species, Nasutitermes exitiosus, builds dome-shaped mounds that are 30-75 cm high.  They usually build their domes near eucalyptus trees. NOTE: the database did not have many observations of this species.  The points may not reflect their overall distribution on the island.    6. The Kangaroo island echidna (Tachyglossus aculeatus ssp. multiaculeatus) is a subspecies of the short-beaked echidna.  Short-beaked echidnas typically eat termites, as well as other insects.  They are considered an incredibly important species for ecosystem health because they rework the soil through their digging activity.    Echidna "lay" eggs and the egg develops in a small pouch on the mother.  When the young echidna hatches, it is called a "puggle".  The puggle rides on the mother as she forages for food.  Sometimes, if the puggle gets too heavy, the mother will dig a cradle in a termite mound for the puggle to rest in while she forages.  Termites provide food and shelter.Puggles can sometimes be found in the same termite mounds as the eggs and hatchlings of the Rosenberg's monitor.  7. Termite mounds are critical for the Rosenberg's goanna (Varanus rosenbergi) as females lay their eggs in termite mounds and the young dig themselves out.  They are an average of 4.2 feet long.  This species was declining on mainland Australia before this wildlife season.  Kangaroo Island is/was their last stronghold.